THE GOLDEN LEGEND 211

deliver thee, and also make my daughter whole, I The

shall believe in him. And when that was done, ὲῗῖἓὲξεῒ,

S. Peter, clad in white clothes, holding the sign Deacon

of the cross, appeared to him, and then anon
Archemius fell down to his feet and his daughter
was made all whole. He then with all his house
received baptism and he let out of prison all the
christian men and all them that would be christian,
and he with many other that believed were
baptized of S. Marcellin priest. When the provost
of Rome heard this he made all the christian men
come tofore him, whom Archemius gathered to-
gether, kissing their hands, and said that who
would come to be martyred should come hardily
without dread, and he that dare not come, let him
go in peace where he will. And when the provost
knew for certain that S. Peter and S. Marcellin
had baptized them, he made them come tofore him,
and departed that one from that other, and put
them so in prison. And S. Marcellin was laid
naked upon broken glass, without light or water,
and S. Peter was imprisoned in a strait place
wherein he was strained. Then came an angel
from heaven and unbound S. Marcellin, and clad
him, and brought him with Peter into the house of
Archemius, because they should seven days comfort
the people busily. After, when he found not
Marcellin in prison whereas he had set him, he
sent for Archemius and commanded him and his
household to do sacrifice, and they would not
’ obey to him. He put then him and his wife into
a pit in the earth. Then when S. Marcellin and
S. Peter heard tell the adventure of Archemius,
they came to him and sung mass in the same pit
with seven christian men that defended them, and
after, they said to the paynims : We might well, if

